Mapimi
==

> The __Programa Pueblos Mágicos__ (Spanish About this sound  (help·info)) ("Magical Villages Programme") is an initiative led by Mexico's Secretariat of Tourism (SECTUR), in conjunction with other federal and state agencies, to promote a series of towns around the country that offer visitors a "magical" experience – by reason of their natural beauty, cultural riches, or historical relevance. The Mexico Tourism Board acknowledges that México´s magical element, and not only its sun and beaches, is what keeps many tourists coming back. Thus, they created the 'Pueblos Mágicos' program to recognize places across the country that imbue certain characteristics that make them unique and historically significant.

> __Mapimí__ is a city and municipal seat of the municipality of Mapimí in the Mexican state of Durango. As of 2010, the town of Mapimí had a population of 5,623. 

> Nestled in the hills and with the desert at its feet, Mapimí is a virtual historical treasure trove. Built by the riches and wealth generated by the nearby colonial La Hojuela Mine, the splendour of its plazas, mansions, and public buildings has to be seen to be believed. The rich veins of copper, silver and gold attracted fortune-seekers to this Magic Town of Durango in the past, including Spanish, English, Chinese, French, and Mestizo.

> The small and historic town of Mapimí served various local mines, including San Vicente, Socavón, Sta. Rita, Sta. María, El Carmen, La Soledad, and the presumably traitorous Judas. The Ojuela Mine, about 3 km. southeast of Mapimí, is a famous locality for mineral specimens, especially adamite.

> The indigenous Tepehuan Indians called this place “the rock on the hill” and repeatedly thwarted the attempts of Jesuit missionaries to found a town here, but the thirst for gold won in the end. 
